Add different projects, links and a new section for security (#62)
zoidbergwill/awesome-ebpf: readme.md

- [eBPF Workflow: Tools and Utilities](#ebpf-workflow-tools-and-utilities)
- [Projects Related to eBPF](#projects-related-to-ebpf)
- [The Code](#the-code)

> - [eBPF in Security](#ebpf-in-security)

Reviewer: I think I would rather move this section above “The Code”.

## Articles and Presentations

> ### Generic eBPF presentations an articles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generic eBPF Presentations and Articles
```
(typo, plus let's fix the case)

  - [Using BPF to do Packet Transformation](https://blogs.oracle.com/linux/notes-on-bpf-6) - One eBPF usage about packet transformation.
- [Linux Kernel Observability through eBPF](https://sematext.com/blog/linux-kernel-observability-ebpf/) - A blog post covering the basics of eBPF as well as code samples in Go on how to build and load a minimal eBPF program into the kernel.
- [eBPF - From a Programmer's Perspective](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/349173667_eBPF_-_From_a_Programmer's_Perspective) - A short paper describing the fundamentals of eBPF and how to get started with writing eBPF programs.
- [Cloudflare's blog posts on eBPF](https://blog.cloudflare.com/tag/ebpf/) - Different blog posts about networking use cases and low-level aspects of eBPF.

> - [Linux Extended BPF (eBPF) Tracing Tools](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) - A in-depth collection of information around examples of performance analysis tools using eBPF. Contains also a section at the end of the page about other resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Linux Extended BPF (eBPF) Tracing Tools](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) - An in-depth collection of information around examples of performance analysis tools using eBPF. Contains also a section at the end of the page about other resources.
```

- Cilium project ([GitHub repository](https://github.com/cilium/cilium)) is a technology relying on BPF and XDP to provide "fast in-kernel networking and security policy enforcement for containers based on eBPF programs generated on the fly". Many presentations available (with overlap):

>   - [Cilium.io](https://cilium.io/) - eBPF-based Networking, Observability, and Security

Author: I just replaced the first word with that link. I leave GitHub as it is.

  - [The adventures of a Suricate in eBPF land](http://netdevconf.org/1.2/slides/oct6/10_suricata_ebpf.pdf)
  - [eBPF and XDP seen from the eyes of a meerkat](https://www.slideshare.net/ennael/kernel-recipes-2017-ebpf-and-xdp-eric-leblond)

- [InKeV: In-Kernel Distributed Network Virtualization for DCN](https://github.com/iovisor/bpf-docs/blob/master/university/sigcomm-ccr-InKev-2016.pdf)
- [gobpf - utilizing eBPF from Go](https://fosdem.org/2017/schedule/event/go_bpf/) - A library to create, load and use eBPF programs from Go.
- [ply](https://wkz.github.io/ply/) - A small but flexible open source dynamic tracer for Linux, with features similar to the bcc tools, but with a simpler language inspired by awk and DTrace.
- [bpftrace](https://bpftrace.org/) - A tool for tracing with its own high-level tracing language. It is flexible enough to be envisioned as a Linux replacement for DTrace and SystemTap.

>   - [bpftrace Cheat Sheet](https://www.brendangregg.com/BPF/bpftrace-cheat-sheet.html) - Summary and cheat sheet for programming in bpftrace. Contains information about syntax, prope types, variables and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [bpftrace Cheat Sheet](https://www.brendangregg.com/BPF/bpftrace-cheat-sheet.html) - Summary and cheat sheet for programming in bpftrace. Contains information about syntax, probe types, variables and functions.
```

- [InKeV: In-Kernel Distributed Network Virtualization for DCN](https://github.com/iovisor/bpf-docs/blob/master/university/sigcomm-ccr-InKev-2016.pdf)
- [gobpf - utilizing eBPF from Go](https://fosdem.org/2017/schedule/event/go_bpf/) - A library to create, load and use eBPF programs from Go.
- [ply](https://wkz.github.io/ply/) - A small but flexible open source dynamic tracer for Linux, with features similar to the bcc tools, but with a simpler language inspired by awk and DTrace.
- [bpftrace](https://bpftrace.org/) - A tool for tracing with its own high-level tracing language. It is flexible enough to be envisioned as a Linux replacement for DTrace and SystemTap.

>   - [Linux Extended BPF (eBPF) Tracing Tools](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) - A in-depth collection of information around examples of performance analysis tools using eBPF.

Reviewer: I thought you'd keep the other link (with the section anchor). OK to keep this one, but then let's find another place for it? It's good enough that it can go under the generic articles and presentations, I'd think.

- [upf-bpf](https://github.com/navarrothiago/upf-bpf) - An in-kernel solution based on XDP for 5G UPF.
- [redbpf](https://github.com/foniod/redbpf) - Tooling and framework to write eBPF code in Rust efficiently.
- [pixie](https://github.com/pixie-io/pixie) - Observability for Kubernetes using eBPF. Features include protocol tracing, application profiling, and support for distributed bpftrace deployments.

> - [Falco](https://falco.org/) - Falco, the cloud-native runtime security project, is the de facto Kubernetes threat detection engine

Reviewer: `the de facto Kubernetes threat detection engine` -> this sounds a bit marketing. I'd rather have a more objective description please.

> - [Sysmon for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysmonForLinux) - Sysmon For Linux is a security monitoring tool. It depends on [SysinternalsEBPF](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysinternalsEBPF).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Sysmon for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysmonForLinux) - A security monitoring tool. It depends on [SysinternalsEBPF](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysinternalsEBPF).
```

- [Red Canary Linux Agent](https://redcanary.com/blog/ebpf-for-security) - Red Canary has started to incorporate eBPF to their Linux security sensor. 
- [Tracee](https://github.com/aquasecurity/tracee) - A runtime security and forensics tool for Linux which uses eBPF technology to trace the system and applications at runtime, and analyze collected events to detect suspicious behavioral patterns.
- [eBPF for Windows](https://github.com/microsoft/ebpf-for-windows) - This project is a work-in-progress that allows using existing eBPF toolchains and APIs familiar in the Linux ecosystem to be used on top of Windows.
- [redcanary-ebpf-sensor](https://github.com/redcanaryco/redcanary-ebpf-sensor) - A set of BPF programs that gather security relevant event data from the Linux kernel. The BPF programs are combined into a single ELF file from which we can selectively load individual probes, depending on the operating system and kernel version we’re running on. 
- [bpflock - Lock Linux machines](https://github.com/linux-lock/bpflock) - An eBPF driven security tool for locking and auditing Linux machines.

# eBPF in Security

> - [Embrace The Red: Offensive BPF!](https://embracethered.com/blog/tags/ebpf) - A series of posts around the introduction into BPF with a focus to an offensive setting, and also how its misuse can be detected. Rootkit capabilities of eBPF are discussed too and which tracing is needed for different use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Embrace The Red: Offensive BPF!](https://embracethered.com/blog/tags/ebpf) - A series of posts around the introduction into BPF with a focus to an offensive setting, and also how its misuse can be detected. Posts include discussions on the rootkit capabilities of eBPF, or on which tracing type is needed for different use cases.
```

- [eBPF: Block Linux Fileless Payload "Malware" Execution with BPF LSM](https://djalal.opendz.org/post/ebpf-block-linux-fileless-payload-execution-with-bpf-lsm/) - Blog post about how BPF can help detection and blocking fileless malware.

> - [Blackhat 2021: With Friends Like eBPF, Who Needs Enemies?](https://www.blackhat.com/us-21/briefings/schedule/#with-friends-like-ebpf-who-needs-enemies-23619) - Talk about an eBPF rootkit and how the capabilities of eBPF could be abused.
> - [eBPF, I thought we were friends !](https://defcon.org/html/defcon-29/dc-29-speakers.html#fournier) - Similar talk as at Blackhat 2021, talk about an eBPF rootkit and it's possibilities.

Reviewer: Since they're similar, I wonder, should we merge the two?
```suggestion
- [Blackhat 2021: With Friends Like eBPF, Who Needs Enemies?](https://www.blackhat.com/us-21/briefings/schedule/#with-friends-like-ebpf-who-needs-enemies-23619) - Talk about an eBPF rootkit and how the capabilities of eBPF could be abused. The rootkit was also the object of a talk at DefCon, [eBPF, I thought we were friends !](https://defcon.org/html/defcon-29/dc-29-speakers.html#fournier).
```

Otherwise, at least `it's`->`its`.

Author: merged the two.

> - [ebpfkit](https://github.com/Gui774ume/ebpfkit) - ebpfkit is a rootkit that leverages multiple eBPF features to implement offensive security techniques.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ebpfkit](https://github.com/Gui774ume/ebpfkit) - A rootkit that leverages multiple eBPF features to implement offensive security techniques.
```

> - [ebpfkit-monitor](https://github.com/Gui774ume/ebpfkit-monitor) - An utility to statically analyse eBPF bytecode or monitor suspicious eBPF activity at runtime. It was specifically designed to detect ebpfkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ebpfkit-monitor](https://github.com/Gui774ume/ebpfkit-monitor) - An utility to statically analyze eBPF bytecode or monitor suspicious eBPF activity at runtime. It was specifically designed to detect ebpfkit.
```

- [upf-bpf](https://github.com/navarrothiago/upf-bpf) - An in-kernel solution based on XDP for 5G UPF.
- [redbpf](https://github.com/foniod/redbpf) - Tooling and framework to write eBPF code in Rust efficiently.
- [pixie](https://github.com/pixie-io/pixie) - Observability for Kubernetes using eBPF. Features include protocol tracing, application profiling, and support for distributed bpftrace deployments.

> - [Falco](https://falco.org/) - Falco is a cloud-native runtime security project used as a Kubernetes threat detection engine.

Reviewer: Since we have Falco, would you mind removing Sysdig from the list (above), please? Unless I'm mistaken they're doing eBPF through Falco, they contributed the code to the CNCF some time ago.

Author: Ack, will remove the link to the more generic Sysdig tracing tool above which now use Falco as their eBPF libs. In the latest release of Sysdig they also state that

> This is the first Sysdig release to make full use of the Falco Libs since its donation to the CNCF in 2021.

- [Sysmon for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysmonForLinux) - A security monitoring tool. It depends on [SysinternalsEBPF](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysinternalsEBPF).
- [Red Canary Linux Agent](https://redcanary.com/blog/ebpf-for-security) - Red Canary has started to incorporate eBPF to their Linux security sensor. 
- [Tracee](https://github.com/aquasecurity/tracee) - A runtime security and forensics tool for Linux which uses eBPF technology to trace the system and applications at runtime, and analyze collected events to detect suspicious behavioral patterns.
- [eBPF for Windows](https://github.com/microsoft/ebpf-for-windows) - This project is a work-in-progress that allows using existing eBPF toolchains and APIs familiar in the Linux ecosystem to be used on top of Windows.

> - [redcanary-ebpf-sensor](https://github.com/redcanaryco/redcanary-ebpf-sensor) - A set of BPF programs that gather security relevant event data from the Linux kernel. The BPF programs are combined into a single ELF file from which we can selectively load individual probes, depending on the operating system and kernel version we’re running on. 

Reviewer: The use of the first person contrasts with the rest of the document. Also, let's get rid of that curly quote, mixing it with straight ones in documents is a nightmare to process text.

How about:

```suggestion
- [redcanary-ebpf-sensor](https://github.com/redcanaryco/redcanary-ebpf-sensor) - A set of BPF programs that gather security relevant event data from the Linux kernel. The BPF programs are combined into a single ELF file from which individual probes can be selectively loaded, depending on the running operating system and kernel version.
```

- [linux/kernel/seccomp.c](https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/kernel/seccomp.c)
- [linux/net/core/dev.c](https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/net/core/dev.c) - contains the function `dev_change_xdp_fd()` that is called through a Netlink command to hook a XDP program to a device, after is has been loaded into the kernel from user space. This function in turns uses a callback from the relevant driver.

## eBPF in Security

> - [eBPF for security: a beginner's guide](https://redcanary.com/blog/ebpf-for-security) - Introduction on eBPF and how Red Canary uses it.

Author: removed that one in this section, but added the linked GitHub repo with the sensor in the project section.

- [Embrace The Red: Offensive BPF!](https://embracethered.com/blog/tags/ebpf) - A series of posts around BPF usage in offensive settings, and also how its misuse can be detected.
- [Offensive BPF! Getting started](https://embracethered.com/blog/posts/2021/offensive-bpf/) - eBPF’s offensive usage is also slowly getting more attention. So, I decided to dive into the topic from a red teaming point of view to learn about it to raise awareness and share the journey.
- [eBPF: Block Linux Fileless Payload "Malware" Execution with BPF LSM](https://djalal.opendz.org/post/ebpf-block-linux-fileless-payload-execution-with-bpf-lsm/)

> - eBPF Rootkit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- eBPF rootkit
```
Not a title

>   - [Blackhat 2021: With Friends Like eBPF, Who Needs Enemies?](https://www.blackhat.com/us-21/briefings/schedule/#with-friends-like-ebpf-who-needs-enemies-23619) - Talk about an eBPF rootkit.

Reviewer: “Talk about an eBPF rootkit.” -> Maybe expand?

  - [eBPF, I thought we were friends !](https://defcon.org/html/defcon-29/dc-29-speakers.html#fournier) - Similar talk as at Blackhat 2021, talk about an eBPF rootkit. 

> - [ebpfkit](https://github.com/Gui774ume/ebpfkit) - ebpfkit is a rootkit that leverages multiple eBPF features to implement offensive security techniques.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ebpfkit](https://github.com/Gui774ume/ebpfkit) - A rootkit that leverages multiple eBPF features to implement offensive security techniques.
```
This item can be indented to appear in the “eBPF rootkit” list, I think this is the same rootkit as described in the two links above.

Author: removed the rootkit section, because also the blog posts on embrace the red talks about rookit functionality.
